# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

> In `console.rb`, three instances in lines 6, 15 & 24.

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

> `property.rb`, inside the `save()` method.

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

> `4`   Property.delete_all()\
> `13`  property1.save()\
> `22`  property2.save()\
> `31`  property3.save()\
> `33`  property1.delete()

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

> So we can take advantage of the `SERIAL SQL DATA_TYPE`, which will create unique id numbers automatically, avoiding the need of handling the referencing manually on our `Ruby` code.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

> The ine `9` from `property.rb`
```ruby
@id = options['id'].to_i if options['id']
```
> handles the `id` numbers created at `properties.sql`.
```sql
id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
```
> It first takes the number as a `String`, then it transform it into an `Integer` and finally avoids inner conflicts in the  `Ruby` side with the `if` guard, which will assign an `id` only when needed.

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

> See answer to Q5.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

> Instance methods are used in the `Ruby` side to grant those actions its functionality, whereas classes methods are used to deal with single objects handled by the database in the `SQL` side of things.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

> An array of hashes. We refer to the id number [starts from 1] with the index number [starts from 0] of the array. 

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

> To avoid a known attack vector in SQL that allows undesire access to our tables and the injection of malicious entries.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?


Q11. What are their return values?

